# Gear-shifting-in-hyperthermophylic-Archaea
Gear shifting in hyperthermophylic Archaea
The well characterized thermoacidophilic Saccharolobus solfataricus (S. solfataricus, formerly Sulfolobus solfataricus) thrives in extreme environments at temperatures ranging from 60 to 90 °C and pH between 2 and 4. We here focus not so much on the challenge posed by each of these individual conditions, but on the challenge of the variation in those conditions. We examine whether a phenomenon we call ‘gear shifting’ could be at play. We do this in different ways: (i) We examine whether such gear shifting could correspond to changes in optimal flux pattern with respect  to altering the catabolic yield of ATP (Gibbs energy) relative to pyruvate (Carbon) or CO2. (ii) We subject to kinetic model to investigate whether ATP/ADP ratio is a determent for gear shifting in S. solfataricus. (iii) We examine whether the transcriptome changes observed when changing the growth temperature should be expected to cause gear shifting. Performing the flux balance analysis on the genome-sequence based metabolic map, we find a diversity of possible flux patterns with 8 different ATP yields. Using the transcriptome as basis, we find that also the shifts between expressed pathways suggest the operation of various parallel metabolic routes operating at different ATP costs or yields. We identify a mode of continuous variation of the ATP/catabolism stoichiometry that should be optimal for the organism if it is differentially stressed energetically. Using the kinetic models constructed for S. solfataricus, we showed that the ATP/ADP ratio could well be the force driving the shifting of the organisms from the high-gear GAPDH plus PGK route to the low-gear GAPN. Flux balance analysis further shows that with this different pathway allocation the harvest of Gibbs energy or biomass changes. Likewise, according to FBA, at different oxygen concentrations different electron transfer pathways may be used to best achieve certain objectives. We identify these phenomena as ‘gear shifting’, which should enable organisms’ to enhance their fitness under conditions of time-variant challenges.  
